---
layout: post
title:      "Why Software Engineering?"
date:       2020-04-20 21:49:13 +0000
permalink:  why_software_engineering
---


My decision to pursue a career in Software Engineering is one of the biggest decisons that I've had to make in my life. Both my educational and professional background is in an unrelated field and I posses little to no prior coding experience. However, I felt extremley compelled to explore the technology industry and embark upon a new chapter in my life. Software Engineering does not only have a tremendous job outlook, but it also provides an abudance of professional success that I'm looking for. After graduating college with my bachelors degree in Business Administration, I spent most of my time surfing around jobs within the sales industry. In sales, you have the ability to earn great financial reward, but for me I wanted my profession to probe deeper then just monetary success. As a former college athlete, I've spent plenty of time working in team environments. I've had the privilege to not only work in incredible teams, but also lead them. I love the idea of working in team environments because I feel much more can be accomplished collectively and this was a contributing factor to me choosing a career in Software Engineering. A quote that my college team always lived by was, "If you want to go fast, go alone, if you want go far, go together".  Another major contributing factor is that I want a career where I feel as though I can impact the world and community around me. Community is something that I'm passionate about. I believe that as a Software Engineer, I have a huge impact on how my community and the world interacts with technology. Without technology, we couldn't provide healthcare adequately, we couldn't launch rockets into space, we couldn't communicate with loved ones who are thousands of miles away, and most importantly- we couldnt replace harmful emmisons that help us contribute to a cleaner environment.  I want to be a part of that! I want to contribute to the world my children, grandchildren, great grandchilden, and so on, will live in. We only get one go on earth, I want my go to have a positive impact on the people around me. Another reason Software Engineering appealed to me was the vast amount of different industries you have the capability of working in. Engineers are needed in almost every industry, whether that be marketing/advertising, aerospace, healthcare, social media, gaming, or educational services etc. For me that particular industry is aerospace. I have always been interested in the field of aerospace but never knew how to break into the industry aside from becoming an aerospace engineer, or being some type of rocket scienetist who has a PhD. in Physics. Upon my research, I realized every aerospace company requires an abudance of Software Engineer's to help maintain and program the valuable software implemented into their specific systems. This leads to my reason in choosing Flatiron School, not only are they reported as one of, if not the best coding bootcamp, but they also have a proven track record of alumni who have had the opportunity of working in aeropsace for big companies such as NASA. After finishing up my first week at Flatiron, I not only know that this was the right decision for me, I also know that with the continious support of my amazing classmates and cohort leads, I will accomplish graduating and find a succesful career upon completion.


